Our last test finished with us coming to the Images section
of our Google search for Pluralsight,
and I've opened up the development tools here and selected the option
to select an element on the page to inspect it, and I'm going to come
hover over that first Pluralsight image.
And it's a little hard to read, but if you look down below,
you can see that this has a class equal to "rg_i space Q4LuWD".
I'm going to write that class down and come up to a new tab and search for a
CSS selector online tester. And I have no endorsement with this company. I've
just used them for a little while now and I like it.
This try.jsoup.org is a great tool for this. And what I'm
going to do is copy this URL on our image search. Go back
over here to this jsoup tool,
click on it, and you'll notice there is the option to fetch a URL. And
I can paste that URL from our Google image search result in here and
click Fetch. That's going to return all of this text that is the
result of our search from our page.
Now, once we're here,
I can go into our CSS query selector here and say img[class =rg_i Q4LuWd
and close that square bracket off, and you'll see that it has built a
selector for us. And your class may be different. Depending on what your
searches and what your results come back as, your class may be something
different than what I typed in here, but this is what the class name came
back for us.
I'm going to go ahead and grab this text, and we will have to
do a little bit of modification to this. But I'm going to copy
that and switch over to my IDE.
Now inside of our IDE, I'm going to go below our imagesLink that we had and
do another WebElement, and this will be the imageElement.
We'll set that equal to a driver.findElements. And we want to do a
By.cssSelector. That text that we just copied from jsoup,
we want to paste inside some quotes here.
Now there is one little thing we'll have to do here. Since
there is a space in that class name, we're going to put a
single tick around that class name.
So yours should look something similar to mine if it contains a
space, and we'll grab the first element there.
So that line is saying that I want to go grab the elements on that page
using a CSS selector, and that selector is image, and I'm going to look
for the class on that image tag for rg_i Q4LuWD. Again, yours may be
different, but that's what it is for the search result that we went for
with that Pluralsight image.
Now, once we have that element, we want to say imageElement.click and save
that. And when we run it, it should pop up that browser and navigate clear
through and then click on that image which will pull up the information on
the website on the right‑hand side.
Let's see if it does that.
And sure enough, you can see that our search result came back and
selected that image, and you can tell that's the case because it
is highlighted in blue, and the information about that is propped
up on the right‑hand side.
So our test has now gone through and used a find by name,
a by link text, and a CSS selector to navigate through
three levels deep in this Google search.
And I'll actually argue that this is one of the more complex
examples you usually run into with automation.
A lot of people get nervous when doing searches.
We have actually tackled one of the more complex problems. You can see
it's not that hard and really only about 10 lines of code for us to get this deep inside of our application.